Let's say our co-workers
need some help getting
their code to work, and
we've offered to debug
their code to
make sure it runs smoothly.
First, we need to know about
the purpose of the code.
In this case, the purpose
of the code is to
parse a single line from
a log file and return it.
The log file we're using tracks
potential issues with
software applications.
Each line in the log contains
the HTTP response status codes,
the date, the time,
and the application name.
When writing this code,
our co-workers consider whether
all these status codes
needed to be parsed.
Since 200 signals a
successful event,
they concluded that lines with
this status code
shouldn't be parsed.
Instead, Python should
return a message
indicating that
parsing wasn't needed.
To start the debugging
process, let's first
run the code to identify
what errors appear.
Our first error is
a syntax error.
The error message also tells us
the syntax error occurs
in a line that
defines a function.
So let's just scroll to
that part of the code.
As you might recall,
these function headers
should end with a colon.
Let's go ahead and
add that to the code.
Now, the syntax error
should go away.
Let's run the code again.
Now our syntax error is gone,
which is good news, but we
have another error, a
"name error."
"Name error" is actually
a type of exception,
meaning we've written
valid syntax,
but Python can't
process the statement.
According to the error,
the interpreter
doesn't understand
the variable application_name
at the point
where it's been added
to the parsed_line list.
Let's examine that
section of code.
This error means we haven't
assigned a variable
name properly.
So now let's go back to where it
was first assigned and
determine what happened.
We find that this
variable is misspelled.
There should be two p's in
application_name, not one.
Let's correct the spelling.
Now that we've fixed it,
it should work.
So let's run the code.
Great! We fixed
an error and an exception.
And we no longer have
any error messages.
But this doesn't mean our
debugging work is done.
Let's make sure the logic of
the program works as intended
by examining the output.
Our output is a parsed line.
In most cases, this
would be what we wanted.
But as you might recall,
if the status code is 200,
our code shouldn't parse the line.
Instead, it should print
a message that no
parsing is needed.
And when we called it with
a status code of 200,
there was a logic error
because this message
wasn't displayed.
So let's go back to the
conditional we used to
handle the status code
of 200 and investigate.
To find the source of the issue,
let's add print statements.
In our print statements,
we'll include the line number
and the description
of the location.
We'll add one print
statement before the line of
code containing
"return parsed_list".
We'll add another above the
if statement that checks for
the 200 status code to
determine if it reaches
the if statement.
We'll add one more
print statement inside
the if statement to
determine whether the
program even enters it.
Now, let's run the code and
review what gets printed.
Only the first print
statement printed something.
The other two print statements
after these didn't print.
This means the program
didn't even enter
the if statement.
The problem occurred somewhere
before the line that returns
the parsed_line variable.
Let's investigate.
When Python encounters the
first return statement
which sends back the parsed list,
it exits the function.
In other words, it
returns the list before
it even checks for a
status code value of 200.
To fix this, we must
move the if statement,
checking for the status code
somewhere before
"return parsed line".
Let's first delete
our print statements.
This makes the program
more efficient
because it doesn't run any
unneeded lines of code.
Now, let's move
the if statement.
We'll place it right
after the line of code
that involves parsing the
status code from the line.
Let's run our code and confirm
that this fixed our issue.
Yes! It printed "Successful
event - no parsing needed."
Great work! We've fixed
this logic error.
I enjoyed debugging
this code with you.
I hope this video has strengthened
your understanding of
some helpful
debugging strategies
and gave you an idea of some
errors you might encounter.